.TH RENDERD.CONF 5 "2024-06-06" "mod_tile v0.8.0"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.

.SH NAME
renderd.conf \- Configuration file of rendering daemon for rendering OpenStreetMap tiles.

.SH SYNOPSIS
renderd.conf

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the \fBrenderd.conf\fR configuration file.
.PP
\fBrenderd.conf\fR is an INI configuration file for use with \fBrenderd(1)\fR.
.PP
The default location is \fB'/etc/renderd.conf'\fR (macro definition \fB'RENDERD_CONFIG'\fR).
.PP
All option names are \fBcase-insensitive\fR.


.SH RENDERD
Options belonging to a \fB[renderd]\fR section.
.PP
There must be at least one \fB[renderd]\fR section (e.g. \fB[renderd]\fR or \fB[renderd0]\fR).
.PP
By default, there can be up to \fB5\fR (macro definition \fB'MAX_SLAVES'\fR) \fB[renderd]\fR sections (e.g. \fB[renderd0]\fR - \fB[renderd4]\fR).
.PP
\fB[renderd]\fR section names must begin with \fB[renderd]\fR.

.TP
.B iphostname
Specify the IP address/hostname to be used for communication with \fBrenderd\fR.
This must be specified in combination with \fBipport\fR.
This option and \fBsocketname\fR are mutually exclusive.

.TP
.B ipport
Specify the port number to be used for communication with \fBrenderd\fR.
This must be specified in combination with \fBiphostname\fR.
This option and \fBsocketname\fR are mutually exclusive.

.TP
.B num_threads
Specify the number of threads to be used for \fBrenderd\fR.
A value of \fB'-1'\fR will configure \fBnum_threads\fR to the number of cores on the system.
The default value is \fB'4'\fR (macro definition \fB'NUM_THREADS'\fR).

.TP
.B pid_file
Specify the file path into which the PID will be written by \fBrenderd\fR.
It is only written to when \fBrenderd\fR is not running in \fBforeground\fR mode (e.g. without \fB'--foreground'\fR / \fB'-f')\fR.
The default value is \fB'/run/renderd/renderd.pid'\fR (macro definition \fB'RENDERD_PIDFILE'\fR).

.TP
.B socketname
Specify the file path to be used as a unix domain socket for communication with \fBrenderd\fR.
This option and \fBiphostname\fR / \fBipport\fR are mutually exclusive.
The default value is \fB'/run/renderd/renderd.sock'\fR (macro definition \fB'RENDERD_SOCKET'\fR).

.TP
.B stats_file
Specify the file path into which statistics will be written by \fBrenderd\fR.
By default, a stats file will not be created.

.TP
.B tile_dir
Specify the directory path into which tiles will be written by \fBrenderd\fR.
The default value is \fB'/var/cache/renderd/tiles'\fR (macro definition \fB'RENDERD_TILE_DIR'\fR).


.SH MAPNIK
Options belonging to the \fB[mapnik]\fR section.
.PP
There can be only one \fB[mapnik]\fR section.
.PP
\fB[mapnik]\fR section name must be equal to \fB[mapnik]\fR.

.TP
.B font_dir
Specify the directory path where fonts are searched for by \fBlibmapnik\fR.
The default value is the output of \fB'mapnik-config --fonts'\fR / \fB'pkgconf --variable=fonts_dir libmapnik'\fR (macro definition \fB'MAPNIK_FONTS_DIR'\fR).

.TP
.B font_dir_recurse
Specify whether or not to recurse the \fBfont_dir\fR when searching for fonts by \fBlibmapnik\fR.
The default value is \fB'false'\fR / \fB'0'\fR (macro definition \fB'MAPNIK_FONTS_DIR_RECURSE'\fR).

.TP
.B plugins_dir
Specify the directory path where input plugins are searched for by \fBlibmapnik\fR.
The default value is the output of \fB'mapnik-config --input-plugins'\fR / \fB'pkgconf --variable=plugins_dir libmapnik'\fR (macro definition \fB'MAPNIK_PLUGINS_DIR'\fR).


.SH MAP SECTION
Options belonging a \fB[map]\fR section.
.PP
There must be at least one \fB[map]\fR section.
.PP
\fB[map]\fR section names can neither begin with \fB[renderd]\fR nor be equal to \fB[mapnik]\fR.
.PP
\fB[map]\fR section names can be anything else, but they must all be unique.

.TP
.B aspectx
Specify the X aspect to be used by \fBmod_tile\fR.
Only used by \fBmod_tile\fR.
The default value is \fB'1'\fR.

.TP
.B aspecty
Specify the Y aspect to be used by \fBmod_tile\fR.
Only used by \fBmod_tile\fR.
The default value is \fB'1'\fR.

.TP
.B attribution
Specify the data attribution to be provided by \fBmod_tile\fR as \fBTileJSON\fR (via \fB{URI}/tile-layer.json\fR).
Only used by \fBmod_tile\fR.
The default value is \fB'&copy;<a href=\\\\\\"http://www.openstreetmap.org/\\\\\\">OpenStreetMap</a> and <a href=\\\\\\"http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Contributors\\\\\\">contributors</a>, <a href=\\\\\\"http://opendatacommons.org/licenses/odbl/\\\\\\">(ODbL)</a>'\fR (macro definition \fB'DEFAULT_ATTRIBUTION'\fR).

.TP
.B cors
Specify the CORS configuration for \fBmod_tile\fR.
Only used by \fBmod_tile\fR.

.TP
.B description
Specify the description to be provided by \fBmod_tile\fR as \fBTileJSON\fR (via \fB{URI}/tile-layer.json\fR).
Only used by \fBmod_tile\fR.

.TP
.B htcphost
Specify the IP address/hostname of the HTCP Host to be used by \fBrenderd\fR for HTCP cache expiry.
Only used by \fBrenderd\fR.

.TP
.B host
Specify the IP address/hostname of the Host to be used by \fBrenderd\fR for HTCP cache expiry.
Only used by \fBrenderd\fR.

.TP
.B maxzoom
Specify the maximum zoom level for this section.
The default value is \fB'20'\fR (macro definition \fB'MAX_ZOOM'\fR).

.TP
.B minzoom
Specify the minimum zoom level for this section.
The default value is \fB'0'\fR.

.TP
.B parameterize_style
Specify the parameterization style/function to be used for this section.
The value of \fB'language'\fR seems to be the only one supported.

.TP
.B server_alias
Specify a URL alias of this server to be provided by \fBmod_tile\fR as \fBTileJSON\fR (via \fB{URI}/tile-layer.json\fR).
Only used by \fBmod_tile\fR.

.TP
.B scale
Specify the scale for this section.
Only used by \fBrenderd\fR.
The default value is \fB'1.0'\fR.

.TP
.B tiledir
Specify the directory path into which tiles will be written by \fBrenderd\fR.
The default value is \fB'/var/cache/renderd/tiles'\fR (macro definition \fB'RENDERD_TILE_DIR'\fR).

.TP
.B tilesize
Specify the tile size for this section.
Only used by \fBrenderd\fR.
The default value is \fB'256'\fR.

.TP
.B type
Specify the tile configuration (in the format \fB'<extension> <mime-type> <output-format>'\fR) for this section (e.g. \fB'png image/png png256'\fR).

.TP
.B uri
Specify the URI prefix with which tiles can be accessed for this section.

.TP
.B xml
Specify the file path of the Mapnik configuration XML file for this section.
Only used by \fBrenderd\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR renderd(1)
.BR

.SH AUTHOR
renderd was written by Jon Burgess, and other OpenStreetMap project members.
.PP
This manual page was written by OpenStreetMap authors.
